Sourcegraph May 2024 release blog (#6919)
sourcegraph/about: content/blogposts/2024/sourcegraph-release-may-2024.md

---
title: "Sourcegraph May 2024 release"
publishDate: 2024-05-07T10:00-07:00
description: "The latest Sourcegraph release includes a new point-in-time search filter for Code Search."
tags: [blog, release]
slug: "release/May-2024"
published: true
heroImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/may-2024/sourcegraph-may2024-release-image.png
socialImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/may-2024/sourcegraph-may2024-release-image.png
changelogItems:

>   - description: "Increased both the performance and the default timeout for language usage insights, which will significantly reduce pain for customers with large repos. Both are configurable using environment variables on the frontend container."

Reviewer: Can we link to docs for this one, to show users how to configure those variables?

    url:
    category: Code Insights
  - description: "Improved Zoekt CPU usage and scalability for customers with a large number of repos."
    url:
    category: Search
  - description: "Greatly improved git blame performance on large files, reducing the time it takes for a git blame on a large file to load from several seconds down to less than 500 milliseconds."
    url:
    category: Search
  - description: "Search Jobs now supports diff, commit, and path searches. Before, only file searches were supported."
    url:
    category: Source
 

---

> 

Reviewer: Either at the top or bottom, want to add a short summary of availability?

"Sourcegraph 5.4.0 is now available, and users self-hosting Sourcegraph can upgrade their instances. Sourcegraph Cloud users will receive this update within the coming X days."

<br/>

### Point-in-time search filter for Code Search

<br/>

> Sourcegraph 5.3.x brings improvements to Code Search with a new search filter [rev:at.time()](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/61513) that provides point-in-time searching. This allows for searching a repo’s state at a specific timestamp rather than at a specific commit, branch, or tag.

Reviewer: @kelvinyap Will there be any docs for this new filter? The linked PR is nice since it includes lots of context, but some usage docs would probably be better from a user perspective.

> Sourcegraph 5.3.x brings improvements to Code Search with a new search filter [rev:at.time()](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/61513) that provides point-in-time searching. This allows for searching a repo’s state at a specific timestamp rather than at a specific commit, branch, or tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sourcegraph 5.4.0 brings improvements to Code Search with a new search filter [rev:at.time()](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/61513) that provides point-in-time searching. This allows for searching a repo’s state at a specific timestamp rather than at a specific commit, branch, or tag.
```

<br/>

### Improved Code Insights chart drill-downs

<br/>

> Code Insights chart drill-downs now utilize the new point-in-time search filter to more accurately represent the results that produced a data point on a chart. Previously a diff search was used to show the difference between a selected point in time on a chart and the one before it, but Code Insights can now show a repository’s state at that exact timestamp. This functionality is useful for those searching large repositories or repositories with lots of history.

Reviewer: I understand this update, but it took me a second to process when I first read it. I think it could be reworded to lead with the customer capability instead of the technical change. Not blocking, and kind of a nit, but just a suggestion. WDYT?

```suggestion
You can now drill down into individual data points on Code Insights charts to see exactly what a repository looked like at the selected point in time. When you click on a chart, you'll see search results using the new `rev` search filter. Previously, a diff search was used to show the difference between a selected point in time on a chart and the one before it.

This functionality is useful for those searching large repositories or repositories with lots of history.
```

Reviewer: As I re-read this, it's definitely a very small point and may be a matter of preference. No issues with keeping it as you've written it!

---
title: "Sourcegraph May 2024 release"

> publishDate: 2024-05-09T10:00-07:00

Reviewer: ```suggestion
publishDate: 2024-05-10T10:00-07:00
```

> description: "The latest Sourcegraph release includes a new point-in-time search filter for Code Search."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "The latest Sourcegraph release includes a new point-in-time search filter for Code Search, plus new Code Insights drill-downs to see exactly what your codebase looked like at given timestamps."
```

socialImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/may-2024/sourcegraph-may2024-release-image.png
changelogItems:
  - description: "Improved the performance of language stats insights by 50-70%, significantly reducing pain for customers with large repos. The timeout for language stats insights has also been raised from 3 to 5 minutes. Both are configurable using environment variables on the frontend container."
    url: https://sourcegraph.com/docs/code_insights/explanations/administration_and_security_of_code_insights#language-stats-performance-configuration
    category: Code Insights
  - description: "Improved Zoekt CPU usage and scalability for customers with a large number of repos."
    url:
    category: Search
  - description: "Greatly improved git blame performance on large files, reducing the time it takes for a git blame on a large file to load from several seconds down to less than 500 milliseconds."
    url:
    category: Search
  - description: "Search Jobs now supports diff, commit, and path searches. Before, only file searches were supported."
    url:
    category: Source
 

---

> 

Reviewer: Is there room to add any narrative to this post? Perhaps about how we're making it easier to see into your codebase not just today but at any point in history?

Sourcegraph already gives you viewability into massive codebases across every code host, but now we do it across time, too. It's almost like our search is becoming more 3 dimensional. Thoughts? Too much?

Author: Added!

<br/>

### Point-in-time search filter for Code Search

<br/>

> Sourcegraph 5.4.0 brings improvements to Code Search with a new search filter [rev:at.time()](https://sourcegraph.com/docs/code-search/queries#structural-search) that provides point-in-time searching. This allows for searching a repo’s state at a specific timestamp rather than at a specific commit, branch, or tag.

Reviewer: WDYT about adding a short list showing ways to use this?

```suggestion
Sourcegraph 5.4.0 brings improvements to Code Search with a new search filter [rev:at.time()](https://sourcegraph.com/docs/code-search/queries#structural-search) that provides point-in-time searching. This allows for searching a repo’s state at a specific timestamp rather than at a specific commit, branch, or tag.

The new filter works with both timestamps and natural language:

- `rev:at.time(1 year ago)`
- `rev:at.time(3 days ago)`
- `rev:at.time(2022-05-05)`
```

<Video 
  source={{
    mp4: 'blog/release-post/may-2024/rev-at-time'
  }}
  loop={true}
  title="Searching by the new point-in-time search filter"
/>

<br/>

### Improved Code Insights chart drill-downs

<br/>

> Code Insights chart drill-downs now utilize the new point-in-time search filter to more accurately represent the results that produced a data point on a chart. Previously a diff search was used to show the difference between a selected point in time on a chart and the one before it, but Code Insights can now show a repository’s state at that exact timestamp. This functionality is useful for those searching large repositories or repositories with lots of history.

Reviewer: Nit: we prefer to use simpler wording when possible, so changing utilize -> use

Also suggest removing "those," it looks unnecessary 

```suggestion
Code Insights chart drill-downs now use the new point-in-time search filter to more accurately represent the results that produced a data point on a chart. Previously a diff search was used to show the difference between a selected point in time on a chart and the one before it, but Code Insights can now show a repository’s state at that exact timestamp. This functionality is useful for searching large repositories or repositories with lots of history.
```

> <Video 

Reviewer: Possible to show controls for this video? It's long and feels like users should be able to control it instead of looping

Reviewer: @jdorfman do you know how to add this? I can't remember the code for showing controls

Reviewer 2: @iskyOS checking

Reviewer 2: @iskyOS 

```
<Video 
  source={{
    mp4: 'blog/shift-left/01-code-reuse'
  }}
  controls={true}
  ...
```

  source={{
    mp4: 'blog/release-post/may-2024/code-insights-rev_at-time-search'
  }}
  loop={true}
  title="Using the new point-in-time filter to drill down in a code insight"
/>

<br/>

### Added Pkl syntax highlighting

<br/>

Sourcegraph 5.4.0 now supports syntax highlighting for the Pkl configuration language.

> <Figure

Reviewer: Any idea why this GIF is smaller than the other 2? It looks a little odd - not a blocker

Reviewer 2: No this is a blocker. It should be the [mp4](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/37xof3y7ynvddtn1oe1q6/pkl-syntax-highlighting.mp4?rlkey=v3a7kmaejtqo05esf4gwsgi63&e=1&dl=0)

Download and upload that ^ @iskyOS
